Now that we have users in place, let's work on posts
and for now I will add posts without a real image because the image upload is something I'll manage
differently, for a post with just title, content,
some dummy text for the image url and an attached user,
you can definitely try this on your own though that will be challenging of course but give it a try,
go as far as you can and then try to solve it together with me,
I will of course now also do it with you.
So I will start in my backend, in my schema here and I will add a new mutation, create. There
I expect to get some data that describes the post,
we could get it all as separate arguments
or again we define an input type which I will do here and that will be my post input data and in my post
input data here, I will require everything I need to, well create a new post and I expect that to be a
title which is a string, the content which is a string and also the image url. The user is something
I can retrieve from the token which has to be attached at some point anyways and the image upload is something
we'll handle differently later.
So the post input data is in the end what I get here,
so post input will be of type
post input data and I will return the created post here,
remember that we did create the post type earlier already. And now with that, we can actually already
move on to the resolvers and add a new resolver which I'll name
create post. In there,
I can use destructuring to extract by post input argument which I just defined in my schema here
and I do get the request as the second argument, we'll need that later to get the user data.
Now for now, let's simply create a dummy post with the dummy data we are able to use right now
and of course let's also validate the input. For validation
I'll use the same approach as when we created or logged the users in, I'll create an empty array, an empty
errors array and then I'll add a couple of if statements.
Here I'll check if validator is empty, whoops, is empty,
so if the input is empty and I'll check that for my title.
If that is the case or if it don't meet a minimum length requirement with isLength for the post input
title and then I configure this length with the second argument to be a minimum of five characters
long,
if we have either of these two cases, then I'll push a new object onto my errors array with a message
of title is invalid.
Obviously again, you could be more detailed here.
So that is my title validation,
I'll then add another if check where I check the content for exactly the same two things
and that is it for now.
Now with that in place, I'll keep my code I have up there where I have a look at my errors
length and I will copy that down here too to throw an error if we have any validation errors.
If we make it past this if block here,
I know my input is valid and we can now create a new post. For that,
we'll eventually also need a user but for now, I'll ignore the user and instead here up there,
I'll import my post mongoose model from the models folder and now we can use that to create new posts
which you of course do, whoops,
not user, post
by using our constructor mongoose gives us.
Now I want to use async await
again, so I'll tweak that to use this syntax here
and now down there where I create my, whoops, not user, my new post, I pass in the title which I get from post
input
title, I of course
also add the content here, so post input content, the image url
post input image url and for now I won't add a creator here because I'm not able to retrieve the
user yet. So that is my post,
I can now store the created post in a new constant and I get that by awaiting for post save to finish,
here
I'll then also need to add posts to users post, later once I do also retrieve the user,
for now I can just return my response here so to say by getting all the data from
the created post doc and then I'll overwrite the ID because I can't return the mongodb object id I need
to return a string and I will overwrite
createdAt and updatedAt because these will be stored as date types,
graphql does not understand that
so I need to convert that to a string too.
So I get that from my created post, there
createdAt
and I need to call to ISO string here.
The same for updatedAt,
updatedAt
will be created post updatedAt to ISO string and now with that, this is the data I want to return
when a new post was added.
Now for now I'm not checking if the user is authenticated and so on,
I'll just have this resolver added, this create post resolver for the respective mutation.
Let's try that out in graphiql
first of all,
so here if I reload that so that it loads my latest definition,
I can add a mutation here and that is now create post. There
I have my post input which is an object where I have a title, test where I have a content, test and where
I have an image url, some url and where I then once it is created
can get back the ID and the title, let's say. Let me click on prettify to make this a bit easier to read
and now if I hit the play button, I get invalid input which makes sense because title and content are
too short so let's make them five characters long and now I simply get an error from the database that
the creator is missing, which makes sense.
But the general mutation is working,
let's now make sure we also validate that token which we need to send anyways and that we extract the
user id and the user therefore so that we can connect posts and users and thereafter, we'll of course
also connect to our frontend.